There are many aspects of code quality that are worth improving.
**Readability**

* **Document design decisions and algorithms.** If your code is well-written, it usually easy to figure out what a single function does. It's less easy to figure out what 15 functions do as a group, how they interact, etc. High-level comments are critical, as you'll discover if you ever stop working on a project and then come back to it 6 months later. 
* **Have someone code review your work.** Ideally, the person is a developer that you admire, but almost any developer will do. If someone can't understand parts of your code, that's a red flag.
* **Review your code reviews.** Code reviews are like trees in a forest: it's easy to address one comment at a time without noticing general trends. Once in a while, look over your last 5 or 50 code reviews and see if there are patterns. If you're consistently reminded to do X, start doing X before you ask for a code review.
* **Review other people's code.** As with many things, your own problems are harder to spot than other people's problems. Looking at the work of others helps you become better-attuned to which practices work well and which do not. The cool thing is that you don't have to do official code reviews -- just find a project on GitHub and start browsing its source.
* **Use informative names** for variables, methods, classes, etc. For example, use *List<User> customers* instead of *List<User> list*.


**Design**

* **Document design decisions.** (Yes, I realize this the second time I've said this.) It's a terrible feeling when you don't remember why you designed something the way that you did, and, out of paranoia, you're afraid to change the design for the better. Furthermore, as you establish a record of your decisions, you can occasionally review your choices and see which ones turned out well and which did not.
* **Refactor regularly.** Once in a while, just pick a piece of code that you're not happy with and try to make it better.
* **Try different approaches.** Some people prefer to think about a problem and do a lot of design up-front, others like to dive in and refactor as they go. Your design quality might improve simply by trying whichever approach you don't currently use.
* **Read some of the seminal design books.** Specifically, *Refactoring* by Fowler and *Design Patterns* by Gamma, et al. Think about the specific examples, but think even more about the overarching principles. For example, one of the driving principles in Design Patterns is "identify something that changes, then encapsulate it." That's a great heuristic that's useful for almost any design task. 

**Correctness and Maintainability**

* **Write unit tests**. First, tests reveal design issues. If your code is hard to test, you should try to figure out why, then try to fix the problem. Second, tests give you a safety harness for experimentation, and experimentation (and practice) are what make you a better code. It's hard to play around with different designs or different algorithm implementations if you're afraid you're going to break everything.
* **Use code analysis tools, if possible**. Depending on the programming language you're using, tools like Lint can analyze your code and point out potential bugs or problem areas.
* **Use a copy/paste detector, like ****PMD** (http://pmd.sourceforge.net/cpd.html). Every time you find a block of code that's repeated 3+ times (or, ideally, 2+ times), try to remove the duplication. This is a great way to practice refactoring.
* **Develop good coding habits.** Over time, you'll find a set of best practices that you like. Turn those practices into habits. For example, I put braces around the bodies of if-statements and loops automatically, even if the bodies end up being 1-line snippets. Another example: whenever I open a file for reading, I put the code into a try/finally block and close the file in the finally statement. When you automatically do the right thing, your code will become better.

**Performance and Scalability**

* **Don't tune anything without profiling it first.** The most common performance tuning mistake is to spend a day rewriting code that consumes a tiny portion of the overall running time. If a web request takes 1 second to process, there's no point in spending a day trying to speed up a piece of the flow that takes 10ms. Performance tweaks often make code more complex, so if you're tuning prematurely then your code quality will suffer.
* **Read stories about how others solved their scaling challenges.** http://highscalability.com (http://highscalability.com) is a good resource. Look for patterns. For example, one common pattern is to isolate different pieces of an architecture behind their own APIs, so that you can scale and deploy different components independently. (Note that this is reminiscent of the Design Patterns principle mentioned earlier.)

Two final things to remember: 1) The 10,000 hour rule is not about practice, but about *deliberate* practice. Think about what you're doing, what works, and what doesn't. 2) You need 10,000 hours to be world class, but you only need a fraction of that time to become very good.
